# FastSal

FastSal is a fast saliency map predictor base on MobielNet V2 backbone. FastSal (A) achieves near real time speed 
on CPU (>30FPS). There are 2 versions of FastSal, A(ddition) and C(oncatenetion), which can be chosen by specifying 
`-model_type`. Two sets of pretrained weights from the SALICON 2017 and COCO 2019 detection tasks are provided. 

## Publication

Find our pre-print on arXiv: [FastSal: a Computationally Efficient Network for Visual Saliency Prediction](https://arxiv.org/abs/2008.11151).

````
@article{hu2020fastsal,
  title={FastSal: a Computationally Efficient Network for Visual Saliency Prediction},
  author={Feiyan Hu and Kevin McGuinness},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2008.11151},
  year={2020}
}
````

## Install Dependencies

Use the package manager [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) to install python library dependencies.

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

#### Download pretrained teacher models and/or weights 
The SALGAN teacher weights can be downloaded from [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Wjf20lt8t-AWtwYbBVnaXW7wakVMuQIU/view?usp=sharing).

The DeepGaze II computational graph can be downloaded from [here](https://deepgaze.bethgelab.org)

#### Pretraining
The SALGAN teacher weights are needed for pretraining.

Supports `salicon` or `coco` for` -dataset_name`.
Supports A or C for `-model_type`.

Pretrain on SALICON 2017:
```bash
python pretrain.py \
-batch_size 30 \
-dataset_name salicon \
-dataset_path DATASET_PATH \
-teacher_path SALGAN_PATH \
-save_dir checkpoint \
-model_name pretrained_salicon
```
Pretrain on COCO:
```bash
python pretrain.py \
-batch_size 30 \
-dataset_name coco \
-dataset_path DATASET_PATH \
-teacher_path SALGAN_PATH \
-save_dir checkpoint \
-model_name pretrained_coco
```

#### Finetuning
The SALGAN teacher weights are needed for fine tuning.
Fine tuning can be either from pretrained weights or random initialized weights. 
If `-pretrain_path` is not provided then randomly intialized weights are used.

Supports `salicon` or `coco` for `-dataset_name`. If `-dataset_name` is `coco`, `-pseudo_path` needs to be specified.
Supports A or C for `-model_type`

Fine tune FastSal A with a SALGAN teacher and pretrained weights from SALICON 2017:
```bash
python fine_tune.py \
-model_type A \
-batch_size 30 \
-dataset_name salicon \
-dataset_path DATASET_PATH \
-teacher_path SALGAN_PATH \
-save_dir checkpoint \
-model_name finetune_salicon \
-pretrain_path weights/salicon_salgan_pretrain.pth
```
Fine tune FastSal C with pseudo saliency maps generated by DeepGaze II and pretrained weights from COCO. 
In order to train on the COCO dataset, pseudo labels have to be generated and saved at `PSEUDO_PATH`. 
In our example, we use Deepgaze II to generate pseudo saliency maps. 
We save the probability saliency map with central bias in numpy files. 
We can provide this data upon request.
```bash
python fine_tune.py \
-model_type C \
-batch_size 30 \
-dataset_name coco \
-dataset_path DATASET_PATH \
-save_dir checkpoint \
-model_name finetune_coco \
-pretrain_path weights/coco_salgan_pretrain.pth \
-pseudo_path PSEUDO_PATH
```
#### Evaluation
Supports `salicon` or `mit1003` for `-dataset_name`. 
If `mit1003` is chosen for `-dataset_name`, `-batch_size` needs to be set 1.
Supports A or C for `-model_type`

Evaluation of FastSal A on the SALICON 2017 validation set:
```bash
python eval.py \
-model_type A \
-batch_size 30 \
-dataset_name salicon \
-dataset_path DATASET_PATH \
-model_path weights/salicon_A.pth
```

#### To load FastSal in python
Examples of how to load FastSal are in `simple_load.py`:
```python
model = fastsal.fastsal(pretrain_mode=False, model_type='A')
state_dict, opt_state = load_weight(MODEL_PATH, remove_decoder=False)
model.load_state_dict(state_dict)
```

#### To predict using a image or a folder with images
In this example, the input and output folder are both `image_example`. Currently the script only takes images files 
with '.jpg', '.png' and '.jpeg' ending.
```bash
python fastSal_predict.py \
-input_path image_examples/
-output_path image_examples/
```

The default settings for prediction `-model_type` is `A`, `finetune_dataset` is `salicon`, `-batch_size` is 1,
`prebability_output` is False and `gpu` is True.
Supports A or C for `-model_type`.
Supports `salicon` or `coco` for `-fintune_dataset`.
If `-probability_output` is True, the output files are saved in numpy data format.

The other arguments are:
```bash
python fastSal_predict.py \
-model_type A \
-finetune_dataset coco \
-input_path image_examples/ \
-output_path image_examples/ \
-batch_size 30 \
-probability_output True \
-gpu False
```
## Future Development
TensorFlow implementation.

## Acknowledgement
This work has emanated from research conducted with the financial support of Science Foundation Ireland (SFI) 
under grant number SFI/15/SIRG/3283 and SFI/12/RC/2289 P2.
